[MUSIC]
You now know it's possible to learn
parameterize policies directly.
This means we can have more flexibility
in how we solve our problems.
Now, we consider learning approximate
values and learning approximate policies,
but is it really helpful
directly learn policies?
[SOUND] After watching this video,
you'll be able to understand
some of the advantages of
using parameterized policies.
[SOUND] There are many advantages
to directly learning the parameters
of a policy.
First, the agent can make its policy
more greedy over time autonomously.
Why would you want that?
Well, in the beginning, the agent's
estimates are not that accurate.
So you would want
the agent to explore a lot.
As the estimates become more accurate, the
agent should become more and more greedy.
Recall the Epsilon greedy
policy we used before.
The Epsilon step chooses a random
action to ensure continual exploration.
However, the Epsilon probability
puts a cap on how good the resulting
policy can be.
We could, of course,
switch to a greedy policy when we think
the agent has explored adequately.
But we want our agents to be autonomous.
We don't want them to rely on us to
decide when exploration is done.
We can avoid this issue with
parameterized policies.
The policy can start off stochastic
to guarantee expiration.
Then as learning progresses,
the policy can naturally converge
towards a deterministic greedy policy.
A softmax policy can adequately
approximate a deterministic policy by
making one action preference very large.
[SOUND] In the tabular setting,
we learn there's always
a deterministic optimal policy.
In function approximation,
we may not be able to represent
this deterministic policy.
Instead, the optimal approximate
policy might be a stochastic policy.
This suggests it might be useful
to learn stochastic policies.
[SOUND] We can see why this is
true by considering an example.
Imagine the agent is in a corridor.
It always starts in the far left state.
In the left and right states,
the actions left and
right have their usual consequences.
In the middle state, however,
the left and right actions are switched.
Moving left will take the agent right.
Moving right takes the agent
to the left state.
The reward is -1 and every step and
the task is episodic.
Imagine the function approximation
treats all these states as the same.
All three states share
the same approximate value.
If we choose to limit ourselves
to deterministic policies,
we would have no choice but
to pick the same action in all the states.
This would give us just two choices.
Always move left or always move right.
If we always move left,
we will never leave the start state.
So the expected return for
that policy is negative infinity.
If we always move,
right we will reach the middle state and
then move back to the start state and
continue this forever.
So the expected return is
also negative Infinity.
If we are allowed to choose
actions stochastically, however,
we can do much better.
We may get stuck for a while, but as long
as each action has a nonzero probability,
we will eventually reach
the terminal state.
In fact,
the best policy under this function
approximation is a little particular.
Choose the right action 59% of the time
and the left action the rest of the time.
This policy achieves an expected
return of around -11.6,
clearly better than negative infinity.
This example may see a seem
a bit contrived, but
similar situations can
arise in the real world.
For example, in our own lab a robot gets
stuck in the corner of the room because it
had a deterministic policy and
a limited function approximator.
[SOUND] Sometimes the policy is more
simple than the value function.
Remember the mountain car problem.
We spent a lot of time designing
a value-based agent to
learn an optimal policy.
However, in this problem,
the energy pumping policy we saw
previously is nearly optimal.
The agent simply selects its action in
agreement with the current velocity.
If the velocity is negative, then the
agent takes the accelerate left action.
If the velocity is positive, then the
agent takes the accelerate right action.
This policy allows the agent to
quickly escape from the valley.
As you can see,
this is quite a simple policy.
The value function on the other
hand is quite complex.
[SOUND] That's it for today.
You should now understand that
parameterized stochastic policies
are useful because they can autonomously
decrease expiration over time.
They can avoid failures due to
deterministic policies with limited
function approximation.
And sometimes the policy is less
complicated than the value function.
In the upcoming videos we'll see if there
is not a strict distinction between action
value methods and policy based methods.
In fact, we can use action values to make
it easier to learn a parameterized policy.
See you then.